High in this video we're going to look at another application of decorator's And in this case we're
going to write a simple logging decorator's.
Now this is something that you might actually find useful in your own code if you want to log every
time a function is called.
Now here I'm just going to log by printing to the console but in reality you're probably going to log
to either a file.
Maybe you're going to use the python logger that built into Python.
Or maybe you're going to log to a database and you're going to store a log of the function calls and
the database and you don't want to have to rewrite this logging code inside each function that you want
to log.
So instead we can use a decorator to do that for us.
And then if we want a function to be log all we need to do is to decorate the function using our logging
decorators.
So let's get started with that.
So the first thing we're going to do is create our log function.
So let's call it logged and we're going to need the wraps but we don't need it.
But I like using it so I'm going to import wraps from phunk tools and then also want date time functionality.
So I'm going to import date time from day time and also want to make sure that the time zone information
is included with the date time and I'm going to use UTC time zones.
So in this case I'm also going to include in the Import time zone.
OK so now let's go ahead and write up in a function.
So in a function to be as generic as possible is going to use the star Arne's and style Starcade of
value.
And I'm going to decorate it using wraps and of course I have to tell wraps which function I'm decorating
in this case it's the function f and then I'm passing in.
So let's go ahead and get the current date time sort of date time goft now.
So now is going to give me the current time but I want to specify which time zone I want.
And the fact that I want to time zone.
So I'm going to say times are not UTC.
OK then I'm going to run the function.
So take a note here of what's happening when the decorator closer is going to get called it's going
to run the function for us and then it's going to print to the console.
And I'm just making a note of that right now because it's going to become important for a little bit
later.
As to the order in which we're doing this I'm not printing and then calling the function I'm calling
the function that was passed in when the decorator was created and then I'm printing out the fact that
this function was called.
So here you would probably write to solve to either a database or to a logging arm application of some
kind.
OK.
So we're just going to print out the name.
Actually no I'm going to print out the runtime first sorry.
So run DTV and then followed by the name.
So at this time the 0 called function whatever the name was with the function.
And then we're going to return the result of the functions we do want to still get the result of that
function and then we return closures.
OK.
So very straightforward.
That's it.
And now we can decorate any function we want with this log decorator and it will log that function call
and we will give us the time as well and of course you can expand on this and add additional information
that you may want in this case.
I only am interested in locking the function name.
You may want to also log the parameters that were used to call the function as well.
OK.
So now let's go ahead and create a function.
So that's a function one.
I'm not going to have it actually have any parameters.
I'm not going to do anything with the function other than just define it.
And then I can call it.
But before I do that I'm going to create another one so maybe I've got you know multiple functions in
my application and I want to log each of them and the ones that I want to log all I have to do is to
decorate them.
So now if I call func 1 you'll see that I get the log right.
So I get the date and time with the time zone and the times on of course as zero offsets and so I'm
using UTC and it's called fun one for call phunk two we get the same thing except the time and date
is different well the time is different.
And it says that it called function 2.
So you get the idea.
Now you can decorate any function in your code using that.
Now of course the way you might want to do this is to put that into some module and then import the
decorator from the module.
And that's why again I'm just bringing that up again.
This is why I'm doing the import inside the function here.
Just so that I don't have to rely on external import when this function runs OK.
So let's go ahead now and go back and I want to copy and paste the code that we did in the previous
example which was the.
So that timing decorator.
So if you don't have it opened you can also just download the code directly from the previous lecture
and the resources downloaded from there.
I'm just going to go to my file here to my previous notebook and I'm going to copy paste the function.
So it's exactly what we had before.
So here's our time function.
And as you can see what it does is it starts the timing calls the function stalls the result then sets
the end time and then it just prints out the elapsed time and then returns the result.
So again note the order in which this is happening the inner function calls the function first and then
prints out the record.
OK.
All right.
So that's now our time decorator so that we have two decorators that we have that we can play with.
So let's go ahead now and write another function I'm just going to write the factorial function.
So we're going to calculate the factorial of an and I'm going to do this using a reduction.
So just for the fun of it let's go ahead.
So I need the because remember the factorial of and is just one times two times three times etc. times
and right.
So basically it's taking a sequence of integers from one up to and including N and just multiplying
each one right.
Each of them by the previous one.
So that's what you reduce does and the reduction function is going to be the multiplication.
So I could use a lambda but I'm going to use the multiplication operator or function that basically
mimics the multiplication operator from the operator model.
So from an operator I'm going to impose.
No that's the multiplication function.
And that takes two parameters and returns the multiplication of the two parameters.
And we've seen them before.
So from fun tools I'm going to need to reduce.
So let's go ahead and impose a bet and then I'm going to return what I'm going to reduce.
I'm going to reduce what what I'm going to use multiplication and then I just want to get all the integers
from one up to and including.
And so I need to do a range from 1 to plus 1.
And that will calculate the factorial.
So now we have all factor we can call factorial of 3 K we get 6 factorial of 5 should be 120.
OK so that seems to be working fine.
But now we can go ahead and decorate this and we have to decorate so which one do we want to use.
Well maybe we want to use the time as we've done before.
So now that it's time when we run this we can see that we have the time right of how long it took for
the factorial function to run.
Of course we could have done logged instead and if we did log then you see we get the log happening.
But we can actually specify both.
Because if you think about this let's go ahead and say logged and then time.
So now if I run this look at the output.
OK.
Let me delete this so we have the timing for the function and then we have the fact that it was called
the logging piece.
Right.
So you can see that both decorators ran and what happens is that this code over here.
The way we've decorated it is no different than doing the following.
And let me just copy paste this to get my original factorial function back and then I'm going to say
factorial equals log of timed of factorial and will remove them minus sign.
And oh it's because it's called Fact free.
OK.
So what we did here for the factorial the way we decorated this is exactly what this did it just basically
stacked the decorators.
So it said that factorial was logged of some function right.
What does Lord decorator expect a function.
And what is the function.
It is the factorial function but that's already been decorated by time.
So when we call factorial of n what's going to happen while it's going to call the in a function that
comes back from logged.
So let's see what happens when we call lob what function do we pass in the timed function right.
Because we passed in time of fact we didn't pass in factorial we passed in time to affect time the fact
returns that closure that goes ahead runs the function and then prints out the time.
So this is why it's important to know when is the printing happening because this kind of looks weird
because if we print if we run this and factorials not defined and we go ahead and run that and of course
N is not defined I should say.
So let's go ahead and run vectorial 3.
Oh sorry.
I decorated it twice.
So let's go ahead and rerun that.
There we go.
You'll notice that the timing ran first.
OK.
At least that's what it looks like because the print came first.
But let's see what happened.
So we called logged on timed factor when we call logged.
It ran this function.
But F-in was the timed function.
And you'll notice the first thing it does before it prints out the log is to actually call the function.
So the first thing it does log is called the decorated function f and that's been decorated with the
timing decorator.
So in other words this runs first this inner function is called before the first print of the log happens.
So here it executes the function and prints out the timing which is why the timing comes first.
But in fact loved got executed first and then once so logged then called this in a function.
And once that finished running then logged continued running.
Which means that it finished calling fan.
So now it goes on and prints the log line that we see.
So don't get confused by that.
The order in which the decorators are stacked means that you have this order of your functions.
And so log the which is the top decorator gets called first.
But what is passed into it is this function over here.
Factorial decorated with timed.
So depending on where the printing happens you may get something that looks reversed.
So just to make sure we understand this.
Let's go ahead and write a couple of very very simple decorators.
And let's just make sure that there's no confusion here.
So let's go ahead and write decorator one and decorator one needs a function and it's not going to do
anything.
Instead it's just going to define it's in a function which you know if you want or you can put the staff's
style and starstuff things in and all it's going to do it's going to say print running decorator 1.
So it's not even going to call in a function.
I'm not interested in that.
Actually we could we could say return in a Tom returns sorry FM of star angst and starstuff.
KW as I want to keep it simple.
I'm just going to remove these.
OK.
So basically this decorator will only work for functions that do not require arguments.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And of course we have to return the you know function right.
We have to return the closure.
So there we go.
Very very simple decorator.
Let me go ahead here and copy paste this.
And now let's call this decorator to running decorator to get.
So now we have these two decorators and let's write a function called my funk and it's not going to
take any parameters because this is what I'm going to decorate.
So of course my function f furn is being called without any parameters in both these cases so it cannot
take any parameter.
So if I required one I wouldn't be able to decorate it with these two decorators.
So let's go ahead and here we're just going to save print running my phunk.
That's all that function does.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to decorate it with first decorator one and then decorate it.
But what does that mean.
It means that functionally This is the same as saying My func equals decorator or one of decorator.
Two of my phunk right.
So this is why you know decorator one is going to run fast because this and the and this line is equivalent
totally equivalent.
So let me go ahead and raise this.
And now let's execute this.
Now my Funk's been decorated and if I call my phunk here's where we get running decorator one running
decorator to and then running by phunk.
Because what happened.
Well we have decorated one gets called frost but what gets passed into decorator which function this
function over here that I'm highlighting which is the decorated my phunk function that's been decorated
with deck 2.
So in honor of deck 1 Prince running deck 1 and then calls the function.
And so this is why it forced Prince running decorator one then it calls the in a function but the function
is the decorated function.
So it then prints running decorated too.
And then this one called.
Now that's our original function my phunk.
Now I called my funk and we see running my funk.
Now if we had done this in reverse which is what we had with the previous example.
So here of course I can't return.
I have to store the results then print and then return the result and then I'm going to do the same
thing here.
So I'm just going copy paste again.
The only thing is this changed to deck too.
OK so now we have these two but I've reversed as you can see when I print and when I return the result.
Now I'm printing and then returning.
I'm calling the function first then printing.
OK.
Calling the function first then printing.
So we execute that and redecorate my funk.
Now when I call my funk you'll see that this is like totally reversed.
We get running my funk.
OK why did that happen first.
Well let's go through this stack again.
We have decorator one is running first.
OK.
So it's running this the first thing it does is called the function.
What is the function calling what function is being called I should say the decorated my phunk.
So it's calling this in a function here.
The first thing it does is run F-in what is F1.
Well F1 is my phunk in this case.
We've decorated two.
So the first thing it does is print running my phunk.
Then it prints running decorated too and then it returns.
So not finished running which means now we have the result whatever the result was which is now in this
result.
And now we print running decorator 1 and then we return the result.
And of course nothing prints out because we are actually returning anything anyway.
So it's just a numb right that gets returned.
So you can see that the order in which you apply your decorator's they can be stacked and you can stack
them as much as you want.
If we wanted to we could say log and timed right.
We can certainly do that.
So now when we run this you can see that we have running my fonk my phone ran for so many seconds we've
got the log that happened and then we have running deck 2 and running deck 1.
And of course if you want.
I'm not sure why you would want to do that but you can certainly repeat the decorator's multiple times.
We saw that earlier when I made a mistake but I could do something like this.
Right.
Nothing stops me from repeating the same decorator because all we're doing in this case is just saying
my funk equals decorate one of decorated to decorate a one of decorated two of my phunk.
Right.
This is what I've done over here.
It's pretty pointless.
But you get the idea.
You can stack them as much as you want.
It's just basically doing this kind of sequence of operations or function calls on each other.
It's a function composition if you want to get of it in mathematical terms.
OK.
So why is that important.
Is that even important.
Does it matter.
And the answer is yes actually can matters.
Let's say for example that you're writing an API and you have some endpoints in there and you want to
do two things on them.
You want to authorize the call.
In other words for each endpoint you want to authorize and say does the caller have rights to run this
particular endpoint.
That's something that's fairly common when you write API is depending on who's logged in what authority
you know what authorizations they have what permissions they have that may or may not be able to call
certain endpoints.
For example they may only be able to do reads but no rights and no updates and deletes.
So you want to do some authorization.
So typically you will write a decorated that will then check to see does this user have access to this
particular endpoint if they don't you want to return an error right away and it's disappear saying hey
no you're not allowed to do this but you may also want to log calls and you may say well I want to log
in a call to any endpoint but only if the endpoint gets executed.
So if the authorization fails there's no point in logging a call to this endpoint because it never ran.
Right.
Or you may say well no I want to log the point no matter what.
Even if it fails the authentication or the authorization.
I still want to lock this.
So suppose that you have two different decorator's you've got an off decorator and this isn't code I'm
just writing pseudo code here I'm just so let me write it this way.
OK let's say you've got an off decorator's.
And you also have a logged decorator's.
OK.
And now you have your endpoint you might say def saved resume's and maybe some parameters and or whatever
it's supposed to do.
And you say OK I'm going to do the authentication then logged.
OK.
So I'm decorating with both these things typically here will have parameters we haven't seen parameterised
decorators yet but you might have something saying you know what permissions are needed.
What roles are needed.
You know also for example you may have roles equals and then a list of possible roles like maybe a route
role.
And you've got maybe objects that you use whatever.
That's kind of just some detail but let's say that this authentication decorator or authorization I
should say decorator will check to see if the currently logged in user or whatever the credentials are
were passed in when making the call has access to save resource.
If it doesn't.
So the first thing that happens is off is called right because off of log of save resource.
Let's not forget what you are can't execute that sorry.
You change this to code a while to text I should say.
Like that.
So what happens here is that we really have that save resource is equal to off of Long of save resource
game.
So that's what's got what's going on here.
So of course if the authentication or the authorization fails then this isn't even going to get caught.
We're going to return right away from the API and say you can't do this.
And so the logging won't happen.
But if we wrote it the other way around.
Right.
So and if you're authorized then it passes the authorization.
And then of course it's in a function right.
So in your oath you would have something like If this is allowed then call the in a function.
Otherwise return an error.
That's how your authorization decorator might be written and then you'll log just logs.
So now if the authorization doesn't fail then it's going to call the in a function it's going to call
logged.
Therefore because the function is the decorated save resource we have logged.
So then it calls log.
So if you were authorized you can get lost and you make the call if you're not authorized.
It bails out and doesn't log before.
If you'd written it the other way around if you'd taken longer and written that before off.
OK.
So like this then what would happen is it's you would have to logged and your authorization next.
So the first thing it would do is actually log the call to us.
OK.
Well the call to save resource but decorated with the authorization declaration.
And if you use wraps of course you'll have the proper save rissoles method in the name.
So everything gets logged whether the call actually happens or not because then the authorization decorator
gets called and then it decides whether it can actually perform the function or not run the save resource
function or not.
So depending on what functionality you want the order in which you specify your stack decorator's does
matter.
And it can matter in the previous example we had with the time in the log.
It really didn't matter much.
Right.
But in cases like this it could sew up to you how you want to do it and just be aware that when you
stack that decorator's one of them will run before the other and therefore it makes a difference.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you the next video.